Introduction and testing with Foundry guides (#183)
base-org/web: apps/base-docs/docs/building-with-base-and-foundry/introduction.md

---
title: Introduction to Foundry
description: Documentation for Foundry, a toolchain for smart contract development. Provides instructions on setting up your development environment to work with Foundry.
keywords: [Foundry, Forge, Foundry Book, smart contract development, toolchain]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

> In this article, you'll learn how to setup Foundry, the toolchain for smart contract development to develop with Base.

Reviewer: I would say "a" toolchain instead of "the"

> In this article, you'll learn how to setup Foundry, the toolchain for smart contract development to develop with Base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this article, you'll learn how to setup Foundry, a toolchain for smart contract development to develop with Base.
```

- *[forge]*: Used to compile, tests, and deploy your smart contracts.
- *[cast]*: Useful to interact with the Blockchain over RPC. You can make smart contract calls, send transactions, or retrieve any type of chain data.
- *[chisel]*: Chisel is a solidity REPL. You can write solidity code directly.
- *[anvil]*: A local Blockchain node for testing and development purposes.

Using Foundry you can manage your dependencies, compile your project, run tests, deploy smart contracts and interact with the chain from the command-line and via Solidity scripts.

For a deep dive on the Foundry features and full capabilities, check out the [Foundry Book].

## Installing Foundry

In order to install Foundry, you can use `Foundryup`, the Foundry's toolchain installer.

To install `Foundryup` you have to run in the terminal:

```bash
$ curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
```

After `Foundryup` is installed, you can now install `Foundry` by running:

```bash
$ foundryup
```

You can verify the installation by trying the following commands:

```bash
$ forge --version
$ cast --version 
$ chisel --version
$ anvil --version
```

## My First Foundry Project

> To create a foundry project we can simply run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a foundry project you can simply run:
```

```bash
$ forge init hello_foundry_in_base
```

This will create a foundry project with the following structure:

> ```bash
> ├── lib          # all the libraries installed will live in this folder
> ├── script       # scripts folder, i.e deploy scripts
> ├── src          # smart contracts folder
> ├── test         # tests folder
> └── foundry.toml # foundry configuration file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```bash
├── lib          # all the libraries installed
├── script       # scripts folder, e.g., deploy scripts
├── src          # smart contracts folder
├── test         # tests folder
└── foundry.toml # foundry configuration file
```

Reviewer 2: If deploy scripts are the _only_ type of scripts stored in the scripts dir then use "i.e.". If deploy scripts are one possible type, then use "e.g."

```

> You will also notice a `.gitsubmodules` file, this is because `Foundry` handles dependencies using [Git submodules].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will also notice a `.gitsubmodules` file -- this is because `Foundry` handles dependencies using [Git submodules].
```

Reviewer 2: Are you missing a URL again? Or is this deliberate? Does it generate a link without `(url)`?

> By default the Foundry structure will have the smart contracts in the `src` folder. This value can be changed using the `foundry.toml` configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default the Foundry structure stores smart contracts in the `src` folder. You can change this in the `foundry.toml` configuration file.
```

Reviewer 2: I notice that like everyone at Coinbase, you like to use the future tense a lot. Trying using it less. It just makes every sentence longer. You really don't need it.

For instance:

```bash
[profile.default]
src = 'contracts'
```

In order to compile the project, simply run:

```bash
forge build:
```

## Setting up Foundry with Base

In order to work with `Base`, you need to configure a couple of settings in the configuration `foundry.toml` file.

The first thing is the solidity version. 

> > As of December 2023, Base does not support yet the new PUSH0 opcode introduced in Shanghai, which is the default target for the Solidity compiler if you use version 0.8.20 or later. You can learn more about the [Differences between Ethereum and Base].

Reviewer 3: You can add warning/info/note like this is admonitions on the docs website.

Instead of using `>`

Wrap the content in a warning admonition like so:

:::warning
As of December 2023, Base does not support yet the new PUSH0 opcode introduced in Shanghai, which is the default target for the Solidity compiler if you use version 0.8.20 or later. You can learn more about the [Differences between Ethereum and Base].
:::

> > As of December 2023, Base does not support yet the new PUSH0 opcode introduced in Shanghai, which is the default target for the Solidity compiler if you use version 0.8.20 or later. You can learn more about the [Differences between Ethereum and Base].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> As of December 2023, Base does not support the new PUSH0 opcode introduced in Shanghai, which is the default target for the Solidity compiler if you use version 0.8.20 or later. See [Differences between Ethereum and Base] to learn more.
```

Reviewer 2: This is minor, but you don't need "yet" because you have a date. If you had no date, then "Base does not yet support X" would work. But with the date, "yet" is unnecessary.

> We recommend using 0.8.19 or lower until this is upgraded. Keep in mind that the update has been deployed to Base Goerli and Base Sepolia.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend using 0.8.19 or lower until Base is upgraded with `PUSH0`. Keep in mind that the update has been deployed to Base Goerli and Base Sepolia.
```

You need to configure your config file as follows:

```bash
[profile.default]
src = 'src'
out = 'out'
libs = ['lib']
solc_version = "0.8.19"
```

Be sure that you modify the pragma of your contracts and simply run `forge build` to ensure everything works well.

> Secondly, we recommend to setup the JSON RPC endpoints for base and the API key for [Basescan] in the configuration file, so once you decide to deploy your smart contracts, your environment will be fully ready.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also recommend setting up JSON RPC endpoints for Base and the API key for [Basescan] in the configuration file so that your environment is ready to deploy your smart contracts.
```

Your configuration file should look like the following:

```bash
[profile.default]
src = "src"
out = "out"
libs = ["lib"]
solc_version = "0.8.19"

[rpc_endpoints]
base = "https://mainnet.base.org"
baseGoerli = "https://goerli.base.org"

[etherscan]
baseGoerli = { key = "${BASESCAN_API_KEY}", url = "https://api-goerli.basescan.org/api" }
base = { key = "${BASESCAN_API_KEY}", url = "https://api.basescan.org/api" }
```

We included 2 JSON RPC endpoints for `Base` and `Base goerli` and similar for the Etherscan section, we included the configuration for `Basescan` for goerli and mainnet. Both rely on the same API Key, `BASESCAN_API_KEY`.

## Conclusion

In this guide, you've embarked on the journey of smart contract development with Base and Foundry. We covered the essential steps, from installing Foundry using the convenient Foundryup toolchain installer to creating your first project and configuring Foundry to seamlessly integrate with Base.

---

## See also

> [Foundry Book]: (https://book.getfoundry.sh/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Foundry Book]: https://book.getfoundry.sh/
```
